# Mint VR
## The Start
After the Stoneman Douglass Shooting, I became very angry with the current gun control policy and the unsatisfactory preventative response to school shootings. At the time, I was young and inexperienced - but, I had an idea. Virtual Reality technology could be used to better prepare high school students for potential school shootings. This idea ripened in my head until-at the beginning of this year-I had a conversation with a peer about creating Virtual Reality Simulations using game engines and the programming language C#. Suddenly, my idea from years ago culminated - all the pieces of its puzzle aligned together. All that was left to do was put my newfound plan into action.
## Project Motivation
The current state madates in regards to training to students on how to handle school shootings to optimize their probability of survival are minimal. In most states, training seminars are given by the police to students that probably will not retain the information being fed to them. Furthermore, students do not actually receive disarmament/self defense training which would help them if encountered with a shooter. Obviously, it would be best if local police departments could give every high schooler this type of training, however this plan of action would stretch community resources thin. This is where Mint VR comes in. 
## Project Description
Mint VR is the name I have given to the projected I have started up over the past few months. Using the game engine Unity and through introducting myself to a new coding language (C#) I was able to create and render an VR animation that firstly, simulates the environment of a school shooting, secondly, teaches correct disarnment form and technique, and thirdly, uses primitive hand tracking technology to physically prompt the user to practice disarnming a shooter in a virtual environment. It is my hope that this project proves to be a cheap and efficient way to train students to deal with the threat of school shootings looming above thier heads. 
## Problems/Innovative Roadblocks
This next section is meant to enumerate the roadblocks I have encountered due to a lack of resources. Tips/suggestions would be appreicated. Firstly, the graphics I used to create the game were rather low quality and I did not know how to get my hands on high quality animations for cheap. Secondly, I would have liked the user to be prompted by some sort of sound system - however, I could not find such a system available for cheap. Thirdly, the current hand tracking hardware I have created is at best, functional, at worst unsophistciated. How do I make a hand tracking software for cheap? 
## Contact
If you have ideas to solve any of the problems above or would like more information about this idea and the beta version of my product then please contact me at alishag0101@gmail.com . Thank you!
